# Passive Sniffing

Data traversing an HTTP channel flows in plain-text format and is therefore prone to MITM attacks. Network administrators can use sniffers for helpful purposes such as to troubleshoot network problems, examine security problems, and debug protocol implementations. However, an attacker can use sniffing tools such as Wireshark to sniff the traffic flowing between the client and the server. The traffic obtained by the attacker might contain sensitive information such as login credentials, which can then be used to perform malicious activities such as user-session impersonation.

An attacker needs to manipulate the functionality of the switch to see all traffic passing through it. A packet sniffing program (sniffer) can only capture data packets from within a given subnet, which means that it cannot sniff packets from another network. Often, any laptop can plug into a network and gain access to it. Many enterprises leave their switch ports open. A packet sniffer placed on a network in promiscuous mode can capture and analyze all network traffic. Sniffing programs turn off the filter employed by Ethernet network interface cards (NICs) to prevent the host machine from seeing other station’s traffic. Thus, sniffing programs can see everyone’s traffic.

The information gathered in the previous step may be insufficient to reveal the potential vulnerabilities of the target. There may be more information to help find loopholes in the target. There may be more information to help find loopholes in the target.
